We must not make a scarecrow ofthe law
Setting it up to fear the birdsof prey
And let it keep one shape,
till custom make it theirperch
and not their terror.
Ay, but yet let us bekeen,
and rather cut a little,
Than fall, and bruise todeath.
Alas, this gentleman
Whom I would save, had amost noble father!
Let but your honour know,
Whom I believe to be moststrait in virtue,
That, in the working ofyour own affections,
Had time cohered with placeor place with wishing,
Or that the resoluteacting of your blood
Could have attain'd theeffect of your own purpose,
Whether you had notsometime in your life
Err'd in this point whichnow you censure him,
And pull'd the law uponyou.
'Tis one thing to betempted, Escalus,
Another thing to fall.
I not deny,
The jury, passing on theprisoner's life,
May in the sworn twelve
have a thief or twoguiltier than him they try.
What's open made to justice,that justice seizes:
what know the laws
That thieves do pass onthieves?
'Tis very pregnant,
The jewel that we find,
we stoop and take'tbecause we see it;
but what we do not see wetread upon,
and never think of it.
You may not so extenuatehis offence
For I have had such faults;but rather tell me,
When I, that censure him,do so offend,
Let mine own judgmentpattern out my death,
And nothing come inpartial. Sir, he must die.
Be it as your wisdom will.
Where is the provost?
Here, if it like yourhonour.
See that Claudio
Be executed by nineto-morrow morning:
Bring him his confessor,let him be prepared;
For that's the utmost ofhis pilgrimage.
Well, heaven forgive him!and forgive us all!
Some rise by sin, and someby virtue fall:
Some run from brakes ofice, and answer none:
And some condemned for afault alone.
How now, sir! What's yourname?
and what's the matter?
If it Please your honour,
I am the poor duke'sconstable,
and my name is Elbow:
I do lean upon justice,sir,
and do bring in herebefore your good honour
two notorious benefactors.
Benefactors? Well; whatbenefactors are they?
are they not malefactors?
If it? please your honour,
I know not well what theyare:
but precise villains theyare,
that I am sure of; andvoid of all profanation
in the world that goodChristians ought to have.
Here's a wise officer;This comes off well.
Go to: what quality arethey of?
Elbow is your name? whydost thou not speak, Elbow?
He cannot, sir; he's outat elbow.
(laughing)
What are you, sir?
He, sir! a tapster, sir;parcel-bawd;
one that serves a badwoman; whose house, sir,
was, as they say, pluckeddown in the suburbs;
but now she professes ahot-house, which, I believe,
is a very ill house too.
How know you that?
My wife, sir, whom Idetest before heaven
and your honour,--
How? thy wife?
Ay, sir; whom, I thankheaven, is an honest woman,--
Dost thou detest hertherefore?
I say, sir, I will detestmyself also,
as well as she, that thishouse,
if it be not a bawd's house,it is pity of her life,
for it is a naughty house.
How dost thou know that,constable?
Marry, sir, by my wife;
who, if she had been awoman cardinally given,
might have been accused infornication, adultery,
and all kinds ofuncleanliness there.
By the woman's means?
Ay, sir, by MistressOverdone's means:
but as she spit in hisface,
so she defied him.
Sir, if it please yourhonour, this is not so.
Prove it before thesevarlets here,
thou honourable man; proveit.
Do you hear how hemisplaces?
Sir, she came in greatwith child;
and longing, saving yourhonour's reverence,
for stewed prunes;
sir, we had but two in thehouse,
which at that very distanttime stood, as it were,
in a fruit-dish, a dish ofsome three-pence;
your honours have seensuch dishes;
they are not China dishes,but very good dishes,
Go to, go to: no matterfor the dish, sir.
No, indeed, sir,
and having but two in thedish, as I said,
Master Froth here, thisvery man,
having eaten the rest, asI said,
and, as I say, paying forthem very honestly;
for, as you know, MasterFroth,
I could not give youthree-pence again.
No, indeed.
Very well: you being then,
if you be remembered,
cracking the stones of theforesaid prunes,
Come, you are a tediousfool: to the purpose.
What was done to Elbow'swife,
that he hath cause tocomplain of?
Come me to what was doneto her.
Sir, your honour cannotcome to that yet.
No, sir, nor I mean itnot.
Sir, but you shall come toit,
by your honour's leave.
And, I beseech you, lookinto Master Froth here, sir;
a man of four-score pounda year;
whose father died atHallowmas:
was't not at Hallowmas,Master Froth?
All-hallond eve.
This will last out a nightin Russia,
When nights are longestthere:
I'll take my leave.
And leave you to thehearing of the cause;
Hoping you'll find goodcause to whip them all.
I think no less. Goodmorrow to your lordship.
Now, sir, come on:
what was done to Elbow'swife, once more?
Once? there wasnothing done to her once.
I beseech you, sir, ask himwhat this man did to my wife.
I beseech your honour, askme.
Well, sir; what did thisgentleman to her?
I beseech you, sir, lookin this gentleman's face.
Good Master Froth, lookupon his honour;
'tis for a good purpose.
Doth your honour mark hisface?
Ay, sir, very well.
Nay; I beseech you, markit well.
Well, I do so.
Doth your honour see anyharm in his face?
Why, no.
I'll be supposed upon abook,
his face is the worstthing about him.
Very good; if his face bethe worst thing about him,
how could Master Froth do theconstable's wife any harm?
I would know that of yourhonour.
He's in the right. Constable,what say you to it?
First, an it like you,
the house is a respectedhouse;
next, this is a respectedfellow;
and his mistress is arespected woman.
By this hand, sir,
his wife is a morerespected person
than any of us all.
Varlet, thou liest; thouliest, wicked varlet!
the time has yet to comethat she was ever respected.
Prove this, thou wickedHannibal, prove this
or I'll have mine actionof battery on thee.
If he took you a box o'the ear,
you might have your actionof slander too.
Marry, I thank your goodworship for it.
What is't your worship'spleasure
I shall do with thiswicked caitiff?
Truly, officer, because hehath some offences in him
that thou wouldst discoverif thou couldst,
let him continue in his courses,till thou knowest what they are.
Marry, I thank yourworship for it.
Thou seest now, thou varlet,
what's come upon thee:
thou art to continue now,thou varlet;
thou art to continue.
Where were you born,friend?
Here in Vienna, sir.
Are you of fourscorepounds a year?
Yes, an't please you, sir.
So. What trade are you of,sir?
Tapster; a poor widow'stapster.
Your mistress' name?
Mistress Overdone.
Hath she had any more thanone husband?
Nine, sir; Overdone by thelast.
Nine!
Come hither to me, MasterFroth.
Master Froth, I would nothave you acquainted
with tapsters: they willdraw you, Master Froth,
and you will hang them.
Get you gone, and let mehear no more of you.
I thank your worship.
For mine own part,
I never come into any roomin a tap-house,
but I am drawn in.
Well, no more of it,Master Froth: farewell.
Come you hither to me,Master tapster.
What's your name, Mastertapster?
Pompey.
What else?
Bum, sir.
Troth, and your bum is thegreatest thing about you;
so that in the beastliestsense you are
Pompey the Great. Pompey,
you are partly a bawd,Pompey,
howsoever you colour it inbeing a tapster,
are you not? come, tell metrue:
it shall be the better foryou.
Truly, sir, I am a poorfellow who would live.
How would you live,Pompey? by being a bawd?
What do you think of thetrade, Pompey?
is it a lawful trade?
If the law would allow it,sir.
But the law will not allowit, Pompey;
nor it shall not beallowed in Vienna.
Does your worship mean togeld and splay
all the youth of the city?
No, Pompey.
Truly, sir, in my pooropinion, they will to't then.
If your worship will takeorder
for the drabs and theknaves,
you need not to fear thebawds.
There are pretty ordersbeginning, I can tell you:
it is but heading andhanging.
If you head and hang allthat offend that way
but for ten year together,
you'll be glad to give out acommission for more heads:
if this law hold in Viennaten year,
I'll rent the fairest house init after three-pence a bay:
if you live to see thiscome to pass,
say Pompey told you so.
Thank you, good Pompey;
and, in requital of yourprophecy, hark you:
I advise you, let me notfind you before me again
upon any complaintwhatsoever;
no, not for dwelling whereyou do:
if I do, Pompey,
I shall beat you to yourtent,
and prove a shrewd Caesarto you;
in plain dealing, Pompey,I shall have you whipt:
so, for this time, Pompey,fare you well.
I thank your worship foryour good counsel:
but I shall follow it asthe flesh and fortune
shall better determine.
Whip me? No, no; letcarman whip his jade:
The valiant heart is notwhipt out of his trade.
Come hither to me, MasterElbow;
come hither, Masterconstable.
How long have you been inthis place of constable?
Seven year and a half,sir.
I thought, by yourreadiness in the office,
you had continued in itsome time.
You say, seven yearstogether?
And a half, sir.
Alas, it hath been greatpains to you.
They do you wrong to putyou so oft upon 't:
are there not men in yourward sufficient to serve it?
Faith, sir, few of any witin such matters:
as they are chosen,
they are glad to choose mefor them;
I do it for some piece ofmoney,
and go through with all.
Look you bring me in thenames of some six or seven,
the most sufficient ofyour parish.
To your worship's house,sir?
To my house. Fare youwell.
I pray you home to dinnerwith me.
I humbly thank you.
It grieves me for thedeath of Claudio;
But there's no remedy.
Lord Angelo is severe.
It is but needful:
Mercy is not itself, thatoft looks so;
Pardon is still the nurseof second woe:
But yet,--poor Claudio!
Is it your will Claudioshall die tomorrow?
Did not I tell thee yea?hadst thou not order?
Why dost thou ask again?
Lest I might be too rash:
Under your goodcorrection, I have seen,
When, after execution,
judgment hath repentedo'er his doom.
Go to; let that be mine:
Do you your office, orgive up your place,
And you shall well bespared.
I crave your honour'spardon.
What shall be done, sir,with the groaning Juliet?
She's very near her hour.
Dispose of her
To some more fitter place,and that with speed.
Here is the sister of theman condemn'd
Desires access to you.
Hath he a sister?
Ay, my good lord; a veryvirtuous maid,
And to be shortly of asisterhood,
If not already.
Well, let her be admitted.
See you the fornicatressbe removed:
Let have needful, but notlavish, means;
There shall be orderfor't.
You're welcome:
what's your will?
I am a woeful suitor toyour honour,
Please but your honourhear me.
Well; what's your suit?
There is a vice that mostI do abhor,
And most desire shouldmeet the blow of justice;
For which I would notplead, but that I must;
For which I must notplead,
but that I am at war'twixt will and will not.
Well; the matter?
I have a brother iscondemn'd to die:
I do beseech you, let itbe his fault,
And not my brother.
Condemn the fault and notthe actor of it?
Why, every fault'scondemn'd ere it be done:
Mine were the very cipherof a function,
To fine the faults whosefine stands in record,
And let go by the actor.
O just but severe law!
I had a brother, then.Heaven keep your honour!
Give't not o'er so: to himagain, entreat him;
Kneel down before him,hang upon his gown:
You are too cold; if youshould need a pin,
You could not with moretame a tongue desire it:
To him, I say!
Must he needs die?
Maiden, no remedy.
Yes; I do think that youmight pardon him,
And neither heaven nor mangrieve at the mercy.
I will not do't.
But can you, if you would?
Look, what I will not,that I cannot do.
But might you do't, and dothe world no wrong,
If so your heart weretouch'd with that remorse
A s mine is to him?
He's sentenced; 'tis toolate.
You are too cold.
Too late? why, no; I, thatdo speak a word.
May call it back again.
Well, believe this,
No ceremony that to greatones 'longs,
Not the king's crown, northe deputed sword,
The marshal's truncheon,nor the judge's robe,
Become them with one halfso good a grace
As mercy does.
If he had been as you andyou as he,
You would have slipt likehim; but he, like you,
Would not have been sostern.
Pray you, be gone.
I would to heaven I hadyour potency,
And you were Isabel!should it then be thus?
No; I would tell what'twere to be a judge,
And what a prisoner.
Ay, touch him; there's thevein.
Your brother is a forfeitof the law,
And you but waste yourwords.
Alas, alas!
Why, all the souls thatwere were forfeit once;
And He that might thevantage best have took
Found out the remedy.
How would you be,
If He, which is the top ofjudgment,
should but judge you asyou are?
O, think on that;
And mercy then willbreathe within your lips,
Like man new made.
Be you content, fair maid;
It is the law, not Icondemn your brother:
Were he my kinsman,brother, or my son,
It should be thus withhim: he must die tomorrow.
To-morrow! O, that'ssudden!
Spare him, spare him!
He's not prepared fordeath.
Even for our kitchens wekill the fowl of season:
shall we serve heaven withless respect
than we do minister to ourgross selves?
Good, good my lord,bethink you;
Who is it that hath diedfor this offence?
There's many havecommitted it.
Ay, well said.
The law hath not been dead,though it hath slept:
Those many had not daredto do that evil,
If the first that did theedict infringe
Had answer'd for his deed:
now 'tis awake takes noteof what is done;
and, like a prophet,
Looks in a glass, thatshows what future evils,
Either new, or byremissness new-conceived,
And so in progress to behatch'd and born,
Are now to have nosuccessive degrees,
But, ere they live, toend.
Yet show some pity.
I show it most of all whenI show justice;
For then I pity those I donot know,
Which a dismiss'd offencewould after gall;
And do him right that,answering one foul wrong,
Lives not to act another.Be satisfied;
Your brother diesto-morrow; be content.
So you must be the firstthat gives this sentence,
And he, that suffer's.
O, it is excellent
To have a giant'sstrength;
but it is tyrannous to useit like a giant.
That's well said.
Could great men thunder
As Jove himself does, Jovewould ne'er be quiet,
For every pelting, pettyofficer
Would use his heaven forthunder;
Nothing but thunder!
Merciful Heaven,
Thou rather with thy sharpand sulphurous bolt
Split'st the unwedgeableand gnarled oak
Than the soft myrtle: butman, proud man,
Drest in a little briefauthority,
Most ignorant of what he'smost assured,
His glassy essence, likean angry ape,
Plays such fantastictricks before high heaven
As make the angels weep;
who, with our spleens,
Would all themselves laughmortal.
O, to him, to him, wench!he will relent;
He's coming; I perceive 't.
We cannot weigh ourbrother with ourself:
Great men may jest withsaints; 'tis wit in them,
But in the less foulprofanation.
Thou'rt i' the right,girl; more o, that.
That in the captain's buta choleric word,
Which in the soldier isflat blasphemy.
Art avised o' that? moreon 't.
Why do you put thesesayings upon me?
Because authority, thoughit err like others,
Hath yet a kind ofmedicine in itself,
That skins the vice o' thetop.
Go to your bosom;
Knock there, and ask yourheart
what it doth know
That's like my brother'sfault:
if it confess a naturalguiltiness such as is his,
Let it not sound a thoughtupon your tongue
Against my brother's life.
She speaks, and 'tis suchsense,
that my sense breathes with it.
Fare ye well.
Gentle my lord, turn back.
I will bethink me: comeagain tomorrow.
Hark how I'll bribe you:good my lord, turn back.
How! bribe me?
Ay, with such gifts thatheaven shall share with you.
Not with fond shekels ofthe tested gold,
Or stones whose rates areeither rich or poor
As fancy values them;
but with true prayers
That shall be up at heavenand enter there
Ere sun-rise, prayers frompreserved souls,
From fasting maids whoseminds are dedicate
To nothing temporal.
Well; come to meto-morrow.
Go to; 'tis well; away!
Heaven keep your honoursafe!
Amen: For I am that waygoing to temptation,
Where prayers cross.
At what hour to-morrow
Shall I attend yourlordship?
At any time 'fore noon.
'Save your honour!
From thee, even from thyvirtue!
What's this, what's this?
Is this her fault or mine?
The tempter or thetempted, who sins most?
Ha!
Not she: nor doth shetempt: but it is I
That, lying by the violetin the sun,
Do as the carrion does,not as the flower,
Corrupt with virtuousseason.
Can it be that modesty maymore betray our sense
Than woman's lightness?
Having waste groundenough,
Shall we desire to razethe sanctuary
And pitch our evils there?O, fie, fie, fie!
What dost thou, or whatart thou, Angelo?
Dost thou desire herfoully for those things
That make her good? O, lether brother live!
Thieves for their robberyhave authority
When judges stealthemselves.
What, do I love her,
That I desire to hear herspeak again,
And feast upon her eyes?
What is't I dream on?
O cunning enemy, that, tocatch a saint,
With saints dost bait thyhook!
Most dangerous is thattemptation that doth goad us on
To sin in loving virtue:never could the strumpet,
With all her doublevigour, art and nature,
Once stir my temper; butthis virtuous maid
Subdues me quite.
Even till now,
When men were fond, Ismiled and wonder'd how.
Bound by my charity and myblest order,
I come to visit theafflicted spirits
Here in the prison. Do methe common right
To let me see them and tomake me know
The nature of theircrimes,
that I may minister tothem accordingly.
I would do more than that,if more were needful.
Look, here's agentlewoman of mine,
Who, falling in the flawsof her own youth,
Hath blister'd her report:she is with child;
And he that got it,sentenced;
a young man more fit to doanother such offence
Than die for this.
When must he die?
As I do think, to-morrow.
I have provided for you:stay awhile,
And you shall beconducted.
Repent you, fair one, ofthe sin you carry?
I do; and bear the shamemost patiently.
I'll teach you how you shallarraign your conscience,
And try your penitence, ifit be sound,
Or hollowly put on.
I'll gladly learn.
Love you the man thatwrong'd you?
Yes, as I love the womanthat wrong'd him.
So then it seems your mostoffenceful act
Was mutually committed?
Mutually.
Then was your sin ofheavier kind than his.
I do confess it, andrepent it, father.
'Tis meet so, daughter:but lest you do repent,
As that the sin hathbrought you to this shame,
Which sorrow is always towardsourselves, not heaven,
Showing we would not spareheaven as we love it,
But as we stand in fear,
I do repent me, as it isan evil,
And take the shame withjoy.
There rest.
Your partner, as I hear,must die to-morrow,
And I am going withinstruction to him.
Grace go with you,Benedicite!
Must die to-morrow! Oinjurious love,
That respites me a life,
whose very comfort isstill a dying horror!
When I would pray andthink, I think and pray
To several subjects. Heavenhath my empty words;
Whilst my invention,
hearing not my tongue,
Anchors on Isabel:
Heaven in my mouth,
As if I did but only chewhis name;
And in my heart the strongand swelling evil
Of my conception.
The state, whereon Istudied
Is like a good thing,being often read,
Grown fear'd and tedious;yea, my gravity,
Wherein--let no man hearme--I take pride,
Could I with boot changefor an idle plume,
Which the air beats forvain.
O place, O form,
How often dost thou withthy case, thy habit,
Wrench awe from fools andtie the wiser souls
To thy false seeming!
Blood, thou art blood:
Let's write good angel onthe devil's horn:
'Tis not the devil'screst.
How now! who's there?
One Isabel, a sister,desires access to you.
Teach her the way.
O heavens!
Why does my blood thusmuster to my heart,
Making both it unable foritself,
And dispossessing
all my other parts ofnecessary fitness?
So play the foolish throngswith one that swoons;
Come all to help him, andso stop the air
By which he should revive:
How now, fair maid?
I am come to know yourpleasure.
That you might know it,
would much better please methan to demand what 'tis.
Your brother cannot live.
Even so. Heaven keep yourhonour!
Yet may he live awhile;and, it may be,
As long as you or I yet hemust die.
Under your sentence?
Yea.
When, I beseech you? thatin his reprieve,
Longer or shorter, he maybe so fitted
That his soul sicken not.
Ha! fie, these filthyvices!
It were as good to pardonhim
that hath from naturestolen
A man already made,
as to remit their saucysweetness
that do coin heaven'simage
In stamps that are forbid:
'tis all as easy
Falsely to take away alife true made
As to put metal inrestrained means
To make a false one.
'Tis set down so inheaven, but not in earth.
Say you so? then I shallpose you quickly.
Which had you rather, thatthe most just law
Now took your brother'slife; or, to redeem him,
Give up your body to suchsweet uncleanness
As she that he hathstain'd?
Sir, believe this,
I had rather give my bodythan my soul.
I talk not of your soul:
our compell'd sins
Stand more for number thanfor accompt.
How say you?
Nay, I'll not warrantthat;
for I can speak againstthe thing I say.
Answer to this:
I, now the voice of therecorded law,
Pronounce a sentence onyour brother's life:
Might there not be acharity in sin
To save this brother's life?
Please you to do't,
I'll take it as a peril tomy soul,
It is no sin at all, butcharity.
Pleased you to do't atperil of your soul,
Were equal poise of sinand charity.
That I do beg his life, ifit be sin,
Heaven let me bear it!
you granting of my suit,
If that be sin, I'll makeit my morn prayer
To have it added to thefaults of mine,
And nothing of youranswer.
Nay, but hear me.
Your sense pursues notmine:
either you are ignorant,
Or seem so craftily; andthat's not good.
Let me be ignorant, and innothing good,
But graciously to know Iam no better.
Thus wisdom wishes toappear most bright
When it doth tax itself;
as these black masks
Proclaim an enshieldbeauty ten times louder
Than beauty could,display'd.
But mark me;
To be received plain, I'llspeak more gross:
Your brother is to die.
So.
And his offence is so, asit appears,
Accountant to the law uponthat pain.
True.
Admit no other way to savehis life,--
As I subscribe not that,nor any other,
But in the loss ofquestion,
--that you, his sister,
Finding yourself desiredof such a person,
Whose credit with thejudge, or own great place,
Could fetch your brotherfrom the manacles
Of the all-building law;
and that there were noearthly mean to save him,
but that either you mustlay down
the treasures of your body
To this supposed, or elseto let him suffer;
What would you do?
As much for my poorbrother as myself:
That is, were I under theterms of death,
The impression of keenwhips I'ld wear as rubies,
And strip myself to death,as to a bed
That longing have beensick for,
ere I'ld yield my body upto shame.
Then must your brotherdie.
And 'twere the cheaperway:
Better it were a brotherdied at once,
Than that a sister, byredeeming him,
Should die for ever.
Were not you then as cruelas the sentence
That you have slander'dso?
Ignomy in ransom and freepardon
Are of two houses:
lawful mercy is nothingkin to foul redemption.
You seem'd of late to makethe law a tyrant;
And rather proved thesliding of your brother
A merriment than a vice.
O, pardon me, my lord; itoft falls out,
To have what we would have,we speak not what we mean:
I something do excuse thething I hate,
For his advantage that Idearly love.
We are all frail.
Nay, women are frail too.
Ay, as the glasses wherethey view themselves;
Which are as easy broke asthey make forms.
Women! Help Heaven!
men their creation mar inprofiting by them.
Nay, call us ten timesfrail;
For we are soft as ourcomplexions are,
And credulous to falseprints.
I think it well:
And from this testimony ofyour own sex,--
Since I suppose we aremade to be no stronger
Than faults may shake ourframes,--let me be bold;
Be that you are, That is,a woman;
if you be more, you'renone;
If you be one, as you arewell express'd
By all external warrants,show it now,
By putting on the destinedlivery.
I have no tongue but one:gentle my lord,
Let me entreat you speakthe former language.
Plainly conceive, I loveyou.
My brother did loveJuliet,
And you tell me that heshall die for it.
He shall not, Isabel, ifyou give me love.
I know your virtue hath alicence in't,
Which seems a littlefouler than it is,
To pluck on others.
Believe me, on minehonour,
My words express mypurpose.
Ha! little honour to bemuch believed,
And most perniciouspurpose! Seeming, seeming!
I will proclaim thee,Angelo; look for't:
Sign me a present pardonfor my brother,
Or with an outstretch'dthroat
I'll tell the world aloudwhat man thou art.
Who will believe thee,Isabel?
My unsoil'd name, theaustereness of my life,
My vouch against you, andmy place i' the state,
Will so your accusationoverweigh,
That you shall stifle inyour own report
And smell of calumny.
I have begun,
And now I give my sensualrace the rein:
Fit thy consent to mysharp appetite;
Lay by all nicety andprolixious blushes,
That banish what they suefor;
redeem thy brother
By yielding up thy body tomy will;
Or else he must not onlydie the death,
But thy unkindness shallhis death draw out
To lingering sufferance.
Answer me to-morrow,
Or, by the affection thatnow guides me most,
I'll prove a tyrant tohim.
As for you, say what youcan,
my false o'erweighs yourtrue.
To whom should I complain?Did I tell this,
Who would believe me? Operilous mouths,
That bear in them one andthe self-same tongue,
Either of condemnation orapproof;
Bidding the law makecourt'sy to their will:
Hooking both right andwrong to the appetite,
To follow as it draws!
I'll to my brother:
Though he hath fallen byprompture of the blood,
Yet hath he in him such amind of honour.
That, had he twenty headsto tender down
On twenty bloody blocks,he'ld yield them up,
Before his sister shouldher body stoop
To such abhorr'dpollution.
Then, Isabel, live chaste,and, brother, die:
More than our brother isour chastity.
I'll tell him yet ofAngelo's request,
And fit his mind to death,for his soul's rest.